[EDU-4711] feat: add microservices arch (#1028)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/architectures/edge-application/microservices.mdx

---
title: Implement Microservices Applications with Azion Edge Functions
description: Use Azion for microservices applications. Boost agility, scale, and cost-efficiency.
meta_tags: edge, applications, web applications, api, content delivery, cdn, serverless, Azion, microservices
namespace: docs_arch_microservices
permalink: /documentation/architectures/edge-application/microservices/
---

Adopting a serverless microservices architecture with Azion Edge Functions brings several significant benefits in this context. Firstly, it improves scalability by allowing each service to scale independently based on its own demand, rather than scaling the entire application based on the demand of a single service. This leads to more efficient resource utilization and cost savings.

Additionally, it enhances flexibility by allowing each service to be developed, deployed, and updated independently. This means that changes can be made to one service without impacting the others, enabling faster innovation and reducing the risk of system-wide failures.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Implement Microservices Applications with Azion Edge Functions
description: Use Azion for microservices applications. Boost agility, scale, and cost-efficiency.
meta_tags: edge, applications, web applications, api, content delivery, cdn, serverless, Azion, microservices
namespace: docs_arch_microservices
permalink: /documentation/architectures/edge-application/microservices/
---

Adopting a serverless microservices architecture with Azion Edge Functions brings several significant benefits in this context. Firstly, it improves scalability by allowing each service to scale independently based on its own demand, rather than scaling the entire application based on the demand of a single service. This leads to more efficient resource utilization and cost savings.

Additionally, it enhances flexibility by allowing each service to be developed, deployed, and updated independently. This means that changes can be made to one service without impacting the others, enabling faster innovation and reducing the risk of system-wide failures.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Implement Microservices Applications with Azion Edge Functions
description: Use Azion for microservices applications. Boost agility, scale, and cost-efficiency.
meta_tags: edge, applications, web applications, api, content delivery, cdn, serverless, Azion, microservices
namespace: docs_arch_microservices
permalink: /documentation/architectures/edge-application/microservices/
---

Adopting a serverless microservices architecture with Azion Edge Functions brings several significant benefits in this context. Firstly, it improves scalability by allowing each service to scale independently based on its own demand, rather than scaling the entire application based on the demand of a single service. This leads to more efficient resource utilization and cost savings.

Additionally, it enhances flexibility by allowing each service to be developed, deployed, and updated independently. This means that changes can be made to one service without impacting the others, enabling faster innovation and reducing the risk of system-wide failures.

> Lastly, Azion Edge Functions run at the edge of the network, closer to the end user. This significantly reduces latency, resulting in faster processing speed and improved application responsiveness. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Implement Microservices Applications with Azion Edge Functions
description: Use Azion for microservices applications. Boost agility, scale, and cost-efficiency.
meta_tags: edge, applications, web applications, api, content delivery, cdn, serverless, Azion, microservices
namespace: docs_arch_microservices
permalink: /documentation/architectures/edge-application/microservices/
---

Adopting a serverless microservices architecture with Azion Edge Functions brings several significant benefits in this context. Firstly, it improves scalability by allowing each service to scale independently based on its own demand, rather than scaling the entire application based on the demand of a single service. This leads to more efficient resource utilization and cost savings.

Additionally, it enhances flexibility by allowing each service to be developed, deployed, and updated independently. This means that changes can be made to one service without impacting the others, enabling faster innovation and reducing the risk of system-wide failures.

> It also increases resilience by isolating failures from the service where they occur, preventing them from affecting the entire application. This is particularly important in a distributed system where failures are inevitable.

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: Implement Microservices Architecture with Serverless Azion Edge Functions

> description: Use Azion for serverless microservices. Boost agility, scale, and cost-efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: The execution of a microservices architecture simplifies application development and maintenance.
```

meta_tags: edge, applications, web applications, api, content delivery, cdn, serverless, Azion, microservices
namespace: docs_arch_microservices
permalink: /documentation/architectures/edge-application/microservices/
---

> Serverless computing on the Azion Edge Platform enables the execution of a microservices applications in a way that simplifies application development and maintenance. This is achieved by breaking down an application into smaller, manageable services that are both independent and interconnected.

Author: ```suggestion
Serverless computing on the Azion Edge Platform enables the execution of microservices applications in a way that simplifies application development and maintenance. This is achieved by breaking down an application into smaller, manageable services that are both independent and interconnected.
```

> The adoption of a serverless microservices architecture with Azion Edge Functions brings about several significant benefits. Firstly, it improves scalability by allowing each service to scale independently based on its own demand, rather than scaling the entire application based on the demand of a single service. This leads to more efficient resource utilization and cost savings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adopting a serverless microservices architecture with Azion Edge Functions brings several significant benefits in this context. Firstly, it improves scalability by allowing each service to scale independently based on its own demand, rather than scaling the entire application based on the demand of a single service. This leads to more efficient resource utilization and cost savings.
```

> Secondly, it enhances flexibility by allowing each service to be developed, deployed, and updated independently. This means that changes can be made to one service without impacting the others, enabling faster innovation and reducing the risk of system-wide failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, it enhances flexibility by allowing each service to be developed, deployed, and updated independently. This means that changes can be made to one service without impacting the others, enabling faster innovation and reducing the risk of system-wide failures.
```

> Thirdly, it increases resilience by isolating failures to the service where they occur, preventing them from affecting the entire application. This is particularly important in a distributed system where failures are inevitable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It also increases resilience by isolating failures from the service where they occur, preventing them from affecting the entire application. This is particularly important in a distributed system where failures are inevitable.
```

Lastly, Azion Edge Functions run at the edge of the network, closer to the end user. This significantly reduces latency, resulting in faster processing speed and improved application responsiveness. 

---

## Architecture

![Representation of a request/response in a microservices setup](/assets/docs/images/uploads/microservices-arch.png)

### Dataflow

> 1. A user sends a request to the **Domain** attached to an **Edge Application**. This request is directed to the **Azion Traffic Router**, which identifies the appropriate **Edge Node** to process the request. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A user sends a request to the **Domain** associated with an edge application. This request is directed to the **Azion Traffic Router**, which identifies the appropriate **Edge Node** to process the request. 
```

> 2. The **Edge Firewall** then checks the request. If deemed non-malicious, the request proceeds further to the Edge Application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The **Edge Firewall** then checks the request. If considered non-malicious, the request proceeds further to the edge application. 
```

3. At this stage, based on microservice architecture, the request branches out to different services in response to the **Rules Engine** configuration. This branching out means the services can evolve independently, facilitating faster innovation cycles and quick deployment of new features.

4. Various modules such as the **Image Processor**, **Edge Cache**, **Application Acceleration**, and **Edge Functions** are invoked based on their configuration. Each service in a microservices architecture corresponds to different business capabilities and is developed, deployed, and scaled independently, providing agility and resilience.

> 5. Static content gets saved in **Edge Storage** from where it is fetched and served as a response. This leverages edge computing to ensure lower latency and faster content delivery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Static content gets saved in **Edge Storage** from where it's fetched and served as a response. This leverages edge computing to ensure lower latency and faster content delivery.
```

6. **Edge SQL** handles operations involving database transactions. This further emphasizes the separation of concerns, with every service taking ownership of its specific database to ensure loose coupling and high cohesion.

> After these distict yet cohesive processes, the content - processed and assembled - is delivered back to the client. This microservices-oriented data flow with edge computing ensures highly efficient, scalable, and resilient operations, offering considerable business advantages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After these distinct yet cohesive processes, the content —processed and assembled— is delivered back to the client. This microservices-oriented data flow with edge computing ensures highly efficient, scalable, and resilient operations, offering considerable business advantages.
```

---

## Components

> - **Edge Application**: frontend to configure delivery, cache policies, and automate cache policy assignments based on content type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Edge Application**: module to configure delivery, cache policies, and automate cache policy assignments based on content type.
```

- **Edge Cache**: a global module facilitating caching content at the edge.

> - **Edge Functions**: mechanism to construct event-driven, serverless microservices at the network's edge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Edge Functions**: a mechanism to create event-driven, serverless microservices at the network's edge.
```

- **Rules Engine**: a tool to set conditions for cache policy enforcement.
- **Tiered Cache**: an extra cache layer between the edge and your origin servers to mitigate latency and infrastructure expenses.  
- **Load Balancer**: designed to manage traffic across your origins, data centers, or cloud providers, thereby reducing network congestion and server overload.
- **Edge Storage**: integrates object storage with the Azion Edge Platform using the S3 standard.
- **Origins**: customize your Edge Application content's source address, header, path, and HMAC authentication credentials.
- **Domains**: link your custom domain with Azion to provide the edge application.
---

## Implementation

1. Set up an edge application:

>     - Utilize the [Console](https://console.azion.com) or [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/#9c61e0fd-e7aa-4a5f-b29e-7f9d71b98d5f) to create an edge application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Utilize [Azion Console](https://console.azion.com) or [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/#9c61e0fd-e7aa-4a5f-b29e-7f9d71b98d5f) to create an edge application.
```

    - The [Azion CLI](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/cli/) is yet another powerful tool for creation and deployment.

>     - The Dynamic and Static File Optimization template should be your preferred choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The [Dynamic and Static File Optimization template](/en/documentation/products/guides/dynamic-and-static-file-optimization-template/) should be your preferred choice.
```

2. Register a domain and link it with the edge application: 
    - [Create a domain](https://www.azion.com/en/documentation/products/guides/configure-a-domain/) on the Console, or use the [Azion API](https://api.azion.com/#a258eabc-b419-47e6-be68-45c2ce0150dd).

> > The edge application, once set-up, can be accessed via a provided Azion domain, typically formed as: `ftd1cvntfl.map.azionedge.net`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The edge application, once set up, can be accessed via a domain provided by Azion, typically formed as: `ftd1cvntfl.map.azionedge.net`
```
